Introduction.md, before:

Introduction
============

#### I General

Aristotle understands _Physics_ to be primarily concerned with motion or change his views also stem to encapsulate change in `this` to `that`. The Natural is what physics applies to, this is most basically reduced to _Concrete Objects_ which induce becoming or cease. It should be noted that Concrete Objects can be added in negated definition as an object which is not abstract and hence inert in causal powers.

There are 9 primary conclusions that are proposed in Physics. It would appear that the author of the introduction believes these are the primary concepts which this work sets out to make.

- The terms `finite` and `infinite` are quantitative and merely adjectival. (ie: An infinite regress and not inifinity as such)
- Time is the non-spatial dimension of `motion` and `station`
- Motion is not made of up of stations, or a sequence of _times_ (nows). Stations and times are not linked, they are atomic islands
- If a thing is complete or whole if it presupposes limitation and exists within those limits which define it
- Any factual or conceptual definition limits or scopes that which it defines
- The unlimitable is not complete and therefore not formally definable. The undefinable exists in the definable and not vice-versa. (I don't believe I fully grasp this yet, maybe we aren't able to grasp that which is anchored or full arrested?)
- You can perform an infinite division of something, however that process is not properly definable. It is only until you arrest that division, it becomes definable.
- Arresting a process does not corrupt it's nature. We can sample an infinite process by analyzing a stretch of it.
- Every potentiality is capable of actualization. If you have an absence of potential then there is no possibility of actualization. There is no distinction between the two in things eternal.

#### II Aristotle's Philosophy

Aristotle generally assumes that the senses can be trusted, there is a certain objectivity to the world. Because of this, there is a sort of common sense aspect which Aristotle brings to room, a presentation that the _practical man_ can subscribe too.

There is a lot of agreement between Empedocles and Aristotle in the four primary elements which compose the natural world (earth, water, air, and fire). However, Aristotle believes that these four elements can shift into each other, which further implies that there is a central force which unifies these elements together. Additionally, he also adds a fifth element (Ether?) which shares in dimensionality as the other four but does not share in their potentiality of motion. It should also be noted that Aristotle assumes that no two same objects can occupy the same space, and that to be an object means to be unopposed in spatial dimensionality.

1) Intellect is not material (This is further expanded upon in De Anima)
2) When a potentiality of a sensation of any kind of object and the potentiality of a mind meet, there is a psychic experience.
3) We aught to except that matter exists in different and changing state independently of our consciousness of it.

Each sense is discrete in and of itself and can deliver the following information: movement, magnitude, figure, plurality and unity. However, there appears to be an ability to couple different senses experience into a unified thing. For example, yellow honey, receives descriptions which are informed by different senses. Yellowness from the eyes, sweetness from the tongue, and stickiness from touch. With this, we can derive that there is a 'common _sense_' layered on top of the other senses which is able to associate a multitude of sense experiences and without adding it's own.

Each sense is able to deliver to us, on it's own, the following aspects: movement, magnitude, figure, plurality and unity.

Commit message:

Continueing to plow through the introduxion

Introduction.md, after:

Introduction
============

#### I. General

Aristotle understands _Physics_ to be primarily concerned with motion or change his views also stem to encapsulate change in `this` to `that`. The Natural is what physics applies to, this is most basically reduced to _Concrete Objects_ which induce becoming or cease. It should be noted that Concrete Objects can be added in negated definition as an object which is not abstract and hence inert in causal powers.

There are 9 primary conclusions that are proposed in Physics. It would appear that the author of the introduction believes these are the primary concepts which this work sets out to make.

- The terms `finite` and `infinite` are quantitative and merely adjectival. (ie: An infinite regress and not inifinity as such)
- Time is the non-spatial dimension of `motion` and `station`
- Motion is not made of up of stations, or a sequence of _times_ (nows). Stations and times are not linked, they are atomic islands
- If a thing is complete or whole if it presupposes limitation and exists within those limits which define it
- Any factual or conceptual definition limits or scopes that which it defines
- The unlimitable is not complete and therefore not formally definable. The undefinable exists in the definable and not vice-versa. (I don't believe I fully grasp this yet, maybe we aren't able to grasp that which is anchored or full arrested?)
- You can perform an infinite division of something, however that process is not properly definable. It is only until you arrest that division, it becomes definable.
- Arresting a process does not corrupt it's nature. We can sample an infinite process by analyzing a stretch of it.
- Every potentiality is capable of actualization. If you have an absence of potential then there is no possibility of actualization. There is no distinction between the two in things eternal.

#### II. Aristotle's Philosophy

Aristotle generally assumes that the senses can be trusted, there is a certain objectivity to the world. Because of this, there is a sort of common sense aspect which Aristotle brings to room, a presentation that the _practical man_ can subscribe too.

There is a lot of agreement between Empedocles and Aristotle in the four primary elements which compose the natural world (earth, water, air, and fire). However, Aristotle believes that these four elements can shift into each other, which further implies that there is a central force which unifies these elements together. Additionally, he also adds a fifth element (Ether?) which shares in dimensionality as the other four but does not share in their potentiality of motion. It should also be noted that Aristotle assumes that no two same objects can occupy the same space, and that to be an object means to be unopposed in spatial dimensionality.

1) Intellect is not material (This is further expanded upon in De Anima)
2) When a potentiality of a sensation of any kind of object and the potentiality of a mind meet, there is a psychic experience.
3) We aught to except that matter exists in different and changing state independently of our consciousness of it.

Each sense is discrete in and of itself and can deliver the following information: movement, magnitude, figure, plurality and unity. However, there appears to be an ability to couple different senses experience into a unified thing. For example, yellow honey, receives descriptions which are informed by different senses. Yellowness from the eyes, sweetness from the tongue, and stickiness from touch. With this, we can derive that there is a 'common _sense_' layered on top of the other senses which is able to associate a multitude of sense experiences and without adding it's own.

Each sense is able to deliver to us, on it's own, the following aspects: movement, magnitude, figure, plurality and unity.

"Abstractions exist apart and sejunct from concrete things and beings only conceptually. However, their existence _in_ existing things and experiences is as real as those things and experiences themselves, and it is only by isolating or abstracting the conceptual that we can have any grasp of the permanent and unchanging amidst the flux and change of sense experiences, which we mean by true 'knowledge' as distinct from cognitive familiarity." (XLVIII)

#### III. Categories

This section begins to separate the differences between concrete (aestheta) and abstract (noeta) entities. Things can be categorized into larger genus or categories of things. Both the horse and human are animals, and animals can further be included into a higher genus of vital organism. We can follow this tree upwards until reach a ceiling and ask what is the high most genus which encapsulates?

The mind presents different concrete entities to our mind, such as an apple, an apple has color, shape and size. The particulars of these properties are not universal to all apples, just the concrete apple being sensed. However, we are able to abstract out the _existence_ of apple, independent of particulars, which we can bind to all apples. Knowing apple sans particulars seems real and is within the domain of _common sense_ to reconcile to other apples found in the world. However, we cannot know the form of apple without experiencing the concrete objects presented through the senses. This then binds the form of apple (and all forms), for humans, to sense perception. I think is an important note to make with Aristotle and why people view him as the philosopher of _common sense_.

#### IV. Abstract thinking and Self-consciousness

The eye can see its own vision, nor can the ear hear is hearing. But, the thinking mind can think upon it's own thought. Sensation is conscious, but the mind is _self_ conscious. Thinking itself is abstracted from all other vital functions, this where the mind-body problem is found. If thought itself is an abstracted state, yet primitively foundational, how else are we to go deeper? Even modern science cannot push beyond this veil, since it requires higher assumptions in order to make claims about reality.

The mind itself has an _a priori_ capacity knowing when two premises that contradict each other are not true. This power creates the bedrock of the human mind to operate and infer in the world and are not needing to be questioned themselves, since to question their very nature usurps the quest of questioning in the first place. That is why these types of powers are called first principals (a principal being: that from which others proceed). For Aristotle, all certainty is based on the based upon these certainties and can be no more certain than they.

#### V. Cosmography and Theology

Aristotle believes that the Nature of things as we know it are both eternal past and eternal in the future. However, he also asserts that there must have been an immaterial cause to all material reality. Since the material reality cannot self contain itself.

"In the inorganic world movement in a body is always caused by some other body that is already in motion. This will land us in an _ad infinitum_ chase for the ultimate origin of movement unless we can find some cause of movement that is not itself in motion" (LXVII)

Aristotle then begins to build a case that living things seem to initiate motion themselves and not in the same way that inorganic motion is derived (ie: a magnet pulling a piece of metal). While an animals likely cause to movement is due to it's environment, the nature of movement is under _desire_ and not like that of a magnet attracting a piece of metal. So then desire needs to be understood as a more immaterial notion, which is how a horse eating fresh grass is not strictly a materially natural end.
